src/content/issues/026.md, before:

---
title: 'Issue 026'
pubDate: May 29, 2016
pubYear: 2016
pubMonth: 29,

currentIssue: false

issueNumber: '026'
volumeNumber: 'Seven'
isbn10:
isbn13:

coverImage: 026cover.jpg
coverTitle:

artistName:
artistLink:

stories: 
- Sycamore Heights
- To Give Birth to a Dancing Star
- Dream Catcher
- The Save
- Feeding is No Crime
- The Garden
- Sergiane’s Choice
- The King is Dead

authors: 
- Josie Turner
- K B Sluss
- Natasha Burge
- Nicole Robb
- Patricia Russo
- Carlea Holl-Jensen
- Melissa Ferguson
- Miranda Geer

# Store links
amazonLink: http://www.amazon.com/Luna-Station-Quarterly-Issue-026/dp/1938697766
gumroadLink: https://gum.co/xpZWH
weightlessLink: 
koboLink:
kindleLink: https://www.amazon.com/Luna-Station-Quarterly-Issue-026-ebook/dp/B01GDIQDJY
payhipLink: 
---
Summer is upon us, and Year Seven of Luna Station Quarterly is in full bloom, with a gathering of rich, vibrant stories to keep you company during the longest days of the year.

These are stories about families; the ones we’re born into and the ones we make, human and non-human alike. Parents and children and siblings and grandparents and relationships stronger than blood, all filtered through the lenses of fantasy, science fiction and magical realism that have long been a hallmark of Luna Station.

So go outside, turn off your devices, and remember to bring this issue with you, for moments of reflection amidst the endless green days to come.

Commit message:

restore author profile and issue pages (#161)
* HOTFIX: add print link

* Subs open 1224 (#139)

* open submissions for june issue

* uncomment submission link

* opening editor applications (#141)

* Close submissions for June issue (#143)

* Removing plausible analytics (#146)

I forget to even look at these things!

* Issue 061 release (#149)

* added author profiles

* fix author profiles, prep for issue release

* launch post and purchase links

* Subs open 0325 (#151)

* added author profiles

* fix author profiles, prep for issue release

* launch post and purchase links

* hotfix: broken payhip link

* open submissions

* close subs for issue 063 (#155)

* release issue 062 and delete submission period posts (#158)

* Restore issues and profiles (#160)

* Release issue 062 (#159)

* HOTFIX: add print link

* Subs open 1224 (#139)

* open submissions for june issue

* uncomment submission link

* opening editor applications (#141)

* Close submissions for June issue (#143)

* Removing plausible analytics (#146)

I forget to even look at these things!

* Issue 061 release (#149)

* added author profiles

* fix author profiles, prep for issue release

* launch post and purchase links

* Subs open 0325 (#151)

* added author profiles

* fix author profiles, prep for issue release

* launch post and purchase links

* hotfix: broken payhip link

* open submissions

* close subs for issue 063 (#155)

* release issue 062 and delete submission period posts (#158)

* add issues

* yay authors and images

* remove banners

src/content/issues/026.md, after:

---
title: 'Issue 026'
pubDate: 'June 01, 2016'
pubYear: 2016
pubMonth: 6

currentIssue: false

issueNumber: '026'
volumeNumber: '07'
isbn10: '1938697766'
isbn13: 978-1-938697-76-0

coverImage: 026cover.jpg
coverTitle: 

artistName: 
artistLink: 

stories:
- Editorial, Issue 026
- Sycamore Heights
- To Give Birth to a Dancing Star
- Dream Catcher
- The Save
- Feeding is No Crime
- The Garden
- Sergiane’s Choice
- The King is Dead

authors:
- Jennifer Lyn Parsons
- Josie Turner
- K B Sluss
- Natasha Burge
- Nicole Robb
- Patricia Russo
- Carlea Holl-Jensen
- Melissa Ferguson
- Miranda Geer

# Store links
amazonLink: http://www.amazon.com/Luna-Station-Quarterly-Issue-026/dp/1938697766
gumroadLink: https://lunastationpress.gumroad.com/l/lsq-026
weightlessLink: https://weightlessbooks.com/luna-station-quarterly-issue-026/
koboLink: 
kindleLink: https://www.amazon.com/Luna-Station-Quarterly-Issue-026-ebook/dp/B01GDIQDJY
payhipLink: 
---

Summer is upon us, and Year Seven of Luna Station Quarterly is in full bloom, with a gathering of rich, vibrant stories to keep you company during the longest days of the year.
These are stories about families; the ones we’re born into and the ones we make, human and non-human alike. Parents and children and siblings and grandparents and relationships stronger than blood, all filtered through the lenses of fantasy, science fiction and magical realism that have long been a hallmark of Luna Station.
So go outside, turn off your devices, and remember to bring this issue with you, for moments of reflection amidst the endless green days to come.
