src/content/issues/055.md, before:

---
title: 'Issue 055'
pubDate: 'September 1, 2023'
currentIssue: false
issueNumber: '055'
volumeNumber: '14'
isbn10: '1949077446'
isbn13: '9781949077445'

coverImage: 055cover.jpg
coverTitle: Warm Embrace

artistName: Harkalé Linaï
artistLink: https://harkale.art

stories: 
- Good News, Bad News
- Lips Like Sugar
- The Very Hand of God
- Built for Her
- Forest-sister
- In The Field
- Skip, Hop, Jump
- Sleep Well, My Prince
- Technical Magic
- The Dreamweaver’s Name
- Who Do We Become?
- Captain Courageous in Venice
- Fittonia
- Kryvoye Lake
- A Lullaby for Mattie Barker
- Jovis

authors: 
- Rhonda Parrish
- Cynthia Gomez
- Ellen Morris Prewitt
- Camden Rose
- Avril Mulligan
- L.S. Johnson
- Amanda Bintz
- Lyndsey Croal
- Samantha Carr
- Megan Chee
- Tannara Young
- Janna Layton
- Libby Feltis
- Oksana Marafioti
- B. Zelkovich
- Kemi Ashing-Giwa and Tali Arima

# Store links
amazonLink: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0CH1ZV18D
gumroadLink: https://lunastationpress.gumroad.com/l/lsq-055
weightlessLink: http://weightlessbooks.com/format/luna-station-quarterly-issue-55
koboLink: https://www.kobo.com/us/en/ebook/luna-station-quarterly-issue-055
kindleLink: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0CH1R5LFN
payhipLink: https://payhip.com/b/FkzeE
---
"It is a sad and beautiful world!" It was true long ago, in that back alley in New Orleans, where the Radio DJ told the Good Egg to BUZZ OFF, and it's still true now, as this dark and delicious issue of LSQ illustrates.

We've got vampires and Venice, post-apocalyptic Canada (?!?) haunted woods and stolen names, and more darkness on the edge of town than you'd care to admit, especially if it was your town. There might even be a happy story or two in here as well, but I won't tell if you won't.

Just as we wait impatiently for Autumn here in the Northern Hemisphere, these tall tales and melancholy monsters are waiting for you, to let your guard down and be pulled under by their velvety subterranean goodness. Best not to keep them waiting.

Commit message:

restore author profile and issue pages (#161)
* HOTFIX: add print link

* Subs open 1224 (#139)

* open submissions for june issue

* uncomment submission link

* opening editor applications (#141)

* Close submissions for June issue (#143)

* Removing plausible analytics (#146)

I forget to even look at these things!

* Issue 061 release (#149)

* added author profiles

* fix author profiles, prep for issue release

* launch post and purchase links

* Subs open 0325 (#151)

* added author profiles

* fix author profiles, prep for issue release

* launch post and purchase links

* hotfix: broken payhip link

* open submissions

* close subs for issue 063 (#155)

* release issue 062 and delete submission period posts (#158)

* Restore issues and profiles (#160)

* Release issue 062 (#159)

* HOTFIX: add print link

* Subs open 1224 (#139)

* open submissions for june issue

* uncomment submission link

* opening editor applications (#141)

* Close submissions for June issue (#143)

* Removing plausible analytics (#146)

I forget to even look at these things!

* Issue 061 release (#149)

* added author profiles

* fix author profiles, prep for issue release

* launch post and purchase links

* Subs open 0325 (#151)

* added author profiles

* fix author profiles, prep for issue release

* launch post and purchase links

* hotfix: broken payhip link

* open submissions

* close subs for issue 063 (#155)

* release issue 062 and delete submission period posts (#158)

* add issues

* yay authors and images

* remove banners

src/content/issues/055.md, after:

---
title: 'Issue 055'
pubDate: 'September 01, 2023'
pubYear: 2023
pubMonth: 9

currentIssue: false

issueNumber: '055'
volumeNumber: '14'
isbn10: '1949077446'
isbn13: 978-1-949077-44-5

coverImage: 055cover.jpg
coverTitle: 

artistName: 
artistLink: 

stories:
- Editorial, Issue 055
- Good News, Bad News
- Lips Like Sugar
- The Very Hand of God
- Built for Her
- Forest-sister
- In The Field
- Skip, Hop, Jump
- Sleep Well, My Prince
- Technical Magic
- The Dreamweaver’s Name
- Who Do We Become?
- Captain Courageous in Venice
- Fittonia
- Kryvoye Lake
- A Lullaby for Mattie Barker
- Jovis

authors:
- Jennifer Lyn Parsons
- Rhonda Parrish
- Cynthia Gómez
- Ellen Morris Prewitt
- Camden Rose
- Avril Mulligan
- L.S. Johnson
- Amanda Bintz
- Lyndsey Croal
- Samantha Carr
- Megan Chee
- Tannara Young
- Janna Layton
- Libby Feltis
- Oksana Marafioti
- B. Zelkovich
- Kemi Ashing-Giwa

# Store links
amazonLink: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0CH1R5LFN
gumroadLink: https://lunastationpress.gumroad.com/l/lsq-055
weightlessLink: https://weightlessbooks.com/luna-station-quarterly-issue-055/
koboLink: https://www.kobo.com/us/en/ebook/luna-station-quarterly-issue-055
kindleLink: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0CH1R5LFN
payhipLink: 
---

"It is a sad and beautiful world!" It was true long ago, in that back alley in New Orleans, where the Radio DJ told the Good Egg to BUZZ OFF, and it's still true now, as this dark and delicious issue of LSQ illustrates.
We've got vampires and Venice, post-apocalyptic Canada (?!?) haunted woods and stolen names, and more darkness on the edge of town than you'd care to admit, especially if it was your town. There might even be a happy story or two in here as well, but I won't tell if you won't.
Just as we wait impatiently for Autumn here in the Northern Hemisphere, these tall tales and melancholy monsters are waiting for you, to let your guard down and be pulled under by their velvety subterranean goodness. Best not to keep them waiting.
