src/content/issues/056.md, before:

---
title: 'Issue 056'
pubDate: 'December 1, 2023'
currentIssue: false
issueNumber: '056'
volumeNumber: '14'
isbn10: '1949077462'
isbn13: '978-1949077469'

coverImage: 056cover.jpg
coverTitle: Maiden and Unicorn

artistName: Domenichino
artistLink: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domenichino

stories:
- "Editorial, 056"
- "Misty Moon"
- "Horse Girls Til The End"
- "A Unicorn’s Horn Is Proof Against Poison"
- "High To Kolob On A Cosmic Clydesdale"
- "Merry Go"
- "The Last Ride of Rivke Grinkin"
- "Hospitality"
- "Rain Town"
- "Hell’s Bells"
- "Out to Pasture"
- "Rodney’s Request"

authors:
- Jennifer Lyn Parsons
- Elizabeth Hinckley
- SK Marre
- Clare Packard
- Katrina Carruth
- Maria Paige Brekke
- Reyzl Grace
- Jennifer Skogen
- Mary J. Daley
- Cass Sims Knight
- Juliet Kahn
- Mary Jo Rabe

# Store links
amazonLink: https://www.amazon.com/dp/1949077462
gumroadLink: https://lunastationpress.gumroad.com/l/lsq-056
weightlessLink: http://weightlessbooks.com/format/luna-station-quarterly-issue-56
koboLink: https://www.kobo.com/us/en/ebook/luna-station-quarterly-issue-056
kindleLink: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0CP8F54MX

---
The nights are getting longer, which means it’s time for Luna Station’s annual theme issue! This time out, for our sixth and (for the moment) final installment in the series, we celebrate horses (and unicorns) and their place in speculative fiction.

The women in these stories, young and old alike, are tuned in to the secrets of these sometimes magical, sometimes mundane, but always special creatures.

These are stories of the past and future, of soldiers and assassins, of carousel horses, transmutation, the angel of death and a herd of wild mustangs under the light of the full moon. And you thought horse stories would be one dimensional!

We’ve done our part. Now it’s up to you, to allow yourself to be changed by these female fronted wonder tales. Go ahead, take some time for yourself. You know you want to.

Commit message:

restore author profile and issue pages (#161)
* HOTFIX: add print link

* Subs open 1224 (#139)

* open submissions for june issue

* uncomment submission link

* opening editor applications (#141)

* Close submissions for June issue (#143)

* Removing plausible analytics (#146)

I forget to even look at these things!

* Issue 061 release (#149)

* added author profiles

* fix author profiles, prep for issue release

* launch post and purchase links

* Subs open 0325 (#151)

* added author profiles

* fix author profiles, prep for issue release

* launch post and purchase links

* hotfix: broken payhip link

* open submissions

* close subs for issue 063 (#155)

* release issue 062 and delete submission period posts (#158)

* Restore issues and profiles (#160)

* Release issue 062 (#159)

* HOTFIX: add print link

* Subs open 1224 (#139)

* open submissions for june issue

* uncomment submission link

* opening editor applications (#141)

* Close submissions for June issue (#143)

* Removing plausible analytics (#146)

I forget to even look at these things!

* Issue 061 release (#149)

* added author profiles

* fix author profiles, prep for issue release

* launch post and purchase links

* Subs open 0325 (#151)

* added author profiles

* fix author profiles, prep for issue release

* launch post and purchase links

* hotfix: broken payhip link

* open submissions

* close subs for issue 063 (#155)

* release issue 062 and delete submission period posts (#158)

* add issues

* yay authors and images

* remove banners

src/content/issues/056.md, after:

---
title: 'Issue 056'
pubDate: 'December 01, 2023'
pubYear: 2023
pubMonth: 12

currentIssue: false

issueNumber: '056'
volumeNumber: '14'
isbn10: '1949077462'
isbn13: 978-1-949077-46-9

coverImage: 056cover.jpg
coverTitle: 

artistName: 
artistLink: 

stories:
- Editorial, Issue 056
- Misty Moon
- Horse Girls Til The End
- A Unicorn’s Horn Is Proof Against Poison
- High To Kolob On A Cosmic Clydesdale
- Merry Go
- The Last Ride of Rivke Grinkin
- Hospitality
- Rain Town
- Hell’s Bells
- Out to Pasture
- Rodney’s Request

authors:
- Jennifer Lyn Parsons
- Elizabeth Hinckley
- SK Marre
- Clare Packard
- Katrina Carruth
- Maria Paige Brekke
- Reyzl Grace
- Jennifer Skogen
- Mary J. Daley
- Cass Sims Knight
- Juliet Kahn
- Mary Jo Rabe

# Store links
amazonLink: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0CP8F54MX
gumroadLink: https://lunastationpress.gumroad.com/l/lsq-056
weightlessLink: https://weightlessbooks.com/luna-station-quarterly-issue-056/
koboLink: https://www.kobo.com/us/en/ebook/luna-station-quarterly-issue-056
kindleLink: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0CP8F54MX
payhipLink: 
---

<span style="color: #333333;">The nights are getting longer, which means it's time for Luna Station's annual theme issue! This time out, for our sixth and (for the moment) final installment in the series, we celebrate horses (and unicorns) and their place in speculative fiction.
The women in these stories, young and old alike, are tuned in to the secrets of these sometimes magical, sometimes mundane, but always special creatures.
These are stories of the past and future, of soldiers and assassins, of carousel horses, transmutation, the angel of death and a herd of wild mustangs under the light of the full moon. And you thought horse stories would be one dimensional!
We've done our part. Now it's up to you, to allow yourself to be changed by these female fronted wonder tales. Go ahead, take some time for yourself. You know you want to.</span>
